<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
    <title>Introduction</title>
</head>

<body>

<div id="content-body">

    <h1>
        DM-UPnP Core
    </h1>

    <p>
        Working with UPnP devices and services requires significant infrastructure. DM-UPnP Core is a Java UPnP library
        that implements this infrastructure, it offers clean and natural APIs for any developer who wants to
        implement either UPnP services or control points.
    </p>

    <p>
        The main features of DM-UPnP Core are:
    </p>

    <dl>
        <dt><strong>Fine-grained and safe APIs</strong></dt>
        <dd>
            <p>
                DM-UPnP Core is not just a thin layer on top of the low-level UPnP protocol, it offers rich and natural APIs
                for developers. Every UPnP header, every message, and every piece of metadata is exposed as a type-safe API
                with as few type casting and string-lookups as possible. Much of the API is thread-safe, thus simplifying
                the pervasively multi-threaded environment in which UPnP operates.
            </p>
        </dd>
        <dt><strong>Modular design and extensive SPIs</strong></dt>
        <dd>
            <p>
                Almost all functionality of DM-UPnP Core can be overridden or replaced with custom code. Subsystems such
                as network transport, message parsing, and even individual aspects of the UPnP protocol implementation
                (such as discovery, control, eventing) offer SPIs for extension and customization.
            </p>
        </dd>
        <dt><strong>Specification compliance</strong></dt>
        <dd>
            <p>
                Many vendors who implement UPnP software violate the UPnP device architecture (UDA) specification in one
                way or another. DM-UPnP Core's goal is to implement and respect every detail of the UDA specification.
                Currently, DM-UPnP Core is targeting UDA 1.0, with preparations already made for future UDA 1.1 compliance.
            </p>
        </dd>
        <dt><strong>Complete implementation</strong></dt>
        <dd>
            <p>
                DM-UPnP Core does not take any shortcuts, no parts of the specification are omitted just because
                they are difficult to implement.
            </p>
        </dd>
        <dt><strong>Full support for Android</strong></dt>
        <dd>
            <p>
                All features of DM-UPnP Core are supported on Android (see
                <a href="/projects/upnp/core/manual/upnp-core-manual.html#chapter.Android">manual</a>,
                platform level 15/Android 4.0 required). Use DM-UPnP
                to write UPnP/DLNA Android clients or even server applications. The full source code of
                the <em>UPnPBrowser</em> example application of the manual can be
                found <a href="/projects/download/misc/">here</a>. You can see the application in
                action in <a href="/weblog/software/New%20Cling%20beta3%20runs%20on%20Android%2021.html">this video</a>.
            </p>
        </dd>
    </dl>


    <h2>
        Getting Started
    </h2>

    <p>
        If you are using Maven, add the following information to your <code>pom.xml</code>:
    </p>

     <pre class="prettyprint"><![CDATA[<repositories>
    <repository>
        <id>4thline-repo</id>
        <url>http://4thline.org/m2</url>
        <snapshots>
            <enabled>false</enabled>
        </snapshots>
    </repository>
</repositories>

<dependencies>
    <dependency>
        <groupId>com.distrimind.upnp</groupId>
        <artifactId>DM-UPnP-Core</artifactId>
        <version>1.2.0-Beta9</version>
    </dependency>
</dependencies>]]></pre>

    <p>
        Continue reading the <a href="manual/upnp-core-manual.html">DM-UPnP Core User Manual</a>, the first
        chapter explains how to implement a UPnP service and a control point. This chapter also contains
        instructions for using DM-UPnP Core <strong>without Maven</strong> in a standalone console application.
    </p>

    <p>
        DM-UPnP Core is Free Software, distributed under the terms of
        the <a class="externalLink" href="http://www.gnu.org/licenses/lgpl-2.1.html">GNU Lesser General Public
        License</a> <strong>or at your option</strong> the <a href="http://opensource.org/licenses/CDDL-1.0">Common
        Development and Distribution License</a>.
    </p>

</div>

</body>
</html>
